out to the Middle East and Israel's
foreign ministers reported to have
described the United Nations as an
anti-israeli body on the day that the UN
Secretary General issued a renewed plea
for a ceasefire in Gaza Antonio gues was
speaking on the Egyptian side of the
Rafa Border Crossing into
Gaza the UN Secretary General traveled
to Egypt's border with Gaza to demand a
truce between Israel and Hamas before
Israel launches a new phase in its
invasion of the
territory I say again nothing justifies
the horrific attacks by amaz on October
the
7th and nothing justifies the collective
punishment of the Palestinian
people now more than ever it is time for
an immediate humanitarian ceas
fire it is time to silence the
guns Israel forces are preparing an
invasion of Rafa gaza's only major city
that has not been devastated Israel says
it's the last Bastion of Hamas more than
a million displaced Palestinians are
Sheltering
there Antonio gutes warned there was
consensus that an invasion of Rafa would
cause a humanitarian catastrophe any
further Onslaught will make things even
worse worse for Palestinian
civilians worse for the hostages and
worse for all people of the region
Israel responded to the Secretary
General speech defiantly foreign
minister Israel cats seen here at the
United Nations earlier this month posted
on X formerly Twitter that under gutes
the UN has become an anti-semitic and
anti-israeli body that shelters and
emboldens Terror little sign then of a
reprieve anytime soon for the
beleaguered and hungry people of
Gaza earlier I asked DW correspondent
Rebecca ritters in Jerusalem to sum up
the secretary General's
remarks well Michael it's probably uh
not anything very unexpected in what
Antonio gues had to say he's visiting
the region also Egypt and Jordan as well
as this Gaza border area in on the
Egyptian side during the holy month of
Ramadan to pay his respects uh and you
know he he nodded at that in his words
at the border sort of nodding at the
fact that many Muslims inside Gaza will
not simply be fasting through choice or
piety but simply that they are not able
to access any food making it very clear
that aid needs to go through he said
that the blocking of these Aid trucks
some 7,000 according to Egyptian
officials as he was told uh by them
there at the border that that was a
moral outrage and that something needed
to be done now Israel says that they are
not uh blocking that it is not them
slowing things down but that is
something that Egyptian officials are
saying is the problem that there simply
that there are 7,000 trucks at the
border waiting to go through and it's
these checks by Israel that are slowing
uh this Aid delivery down um he also uh
said that Gans were not alone that the
International Community was appalled and
standing by them uh And he as you heard
in in that s in that sound bite that you
just played there that he was decrying
that a further Onslaught was was bad
both for garans as well as the hostages
he called for as you just heard in the
in the um in the the sort of because
it's Ramadan that that that you know
people should that that Hamas should
consider uh releasing the hostages and
again of course calling for a ceasefire
the day after the UN Security Council
failed to vote on uh on a recommendation
for a
ceasefire a DW correspondent Rebecca
Ritter in Jerusalem thanks
Rebecca